# Neblina
Neblina is a scientific and numerical programming language that aims to create a substantially transparent layer on the programming of parallel computing environments equipped with heterogeneous architectures, such as CPUs and GPUs.
Increasing productivity in parallel and high performance computing is a current research area. We can mention the project named High Productivity Computing Systems (HPCS) of DARPA, one of whose goals is to develop a new generation of high productivity computing. This project emerged the following programming languages with this purpose: X10 , Fortress and Chepel. Howerever in this languages, the user need know about paralelism (either task or data paralelism). Only Chepel support GPGPU architetures. The commom approach to increase the produtivity in parallel CPU program is the use of compile directives and annotations on existing languages. Accelerator, Nested and Copperhead use data paralelism model to facilitating the GPU development. Our approach differs from these previous languages since Neblina need not require any knowledge about parallelism. The approaches closest to the proposal of this work are SaC, Chesnut, Matlab Jacket. However, these languages have important differences in our work. SaC (Single Assignment C), Chesnut and Jacket generate a Cuda code from a high level functional language. In this case, only Nvidia platforms can be used differently of our work that can be used in many heterogeneous platforms.
Neblina is a language focused on establishing a parallel computing layer using minimal knowledge of the user about parallel programming. For those who are programming in Neblina, the operations are seen as sequential operations. independently of the architecture processing platform or vendor, the Neblina interpreter sends the data to the parallel processing unit (either CPU or GPU). This is done in a transparent way using OpenCL paralell API. Another purpose is to provide an open environment for programming in a heterogeneous processing platforms. Users can also extend the language by creating new functions. Particularly, operations involving arrays (matrices and vectors) are operations, in general case, with greater computational demand. The Neblina programming language aims to be simple and easily to manipulate. Basic structure is similar to traditional programming languages, such as C, Java and Python. It has dynamic typing that allows greater flexibility in programming (like Python and Lua). The variables don't have types, they have values. We prefer not to use models of languages such as LISP or Prolog. This could discourage non-programmers or professionals from different areas of language use Neblina. We try to have a simple language but familiar. The Neblina language supports much of the conventional statements (conditional structure, loop iteration, ...). Each statements, has implicit begin and the end marked with the reserved word end. Our goal is to have a language not very prolific, however, have a pleasant and intelligible language to describe codes. All Neblina programs have a main function (such as C) to start program. See the automatic generated GNU Bison Automaton Report for a detailed view of Neblina syntax. Here some Neblina codes to get a initial contact with syntax.
